## Peer Reviews

You can optionally participate in peer reviews, both as a reviewer
and as a review recipient. While reviewers get points for their
effort, the recipients do not – instead, they get (hopefully) useful
information.

### Requesting Reviews

If you would like to have your code reviewed, you can issue the
following command:

    $ pb161 review --request t1_cellular

Substitute other programming tasks for ‹t1_cellular› as appropriate.
You can request a «peer» review on a task which you did not pass
yet. You may get up to 3 reviews for any given request. The reviewer
will work with the submission that was current at the time you have
created the request. Make sure you submit the code you want reviewed
before requesting the review.

The ‹pb161 update› command will indicate whether someone reviewed
your code, by printing a line of the form
‹A reviews/t1_cellular.by.xlogin›.  To read the review, look at the
files in ‹~/pb161/reviews/t1_cellular.by.xlogin› -- you will find a
copy of your submitted sources along with comments provided by the
reviewer. After you read your review, you should write a few
sentences for the reviewer into ‹note.txt› in the review directory
(please wrap lines to 80 columns) and then run:

    $ pb161 review --accept 100

Instead of 100, you can use a smaller number, indicating what
percentage of the points the reviewer deserves for their job. Please
make sure that you grade the review honestly -- the reviews will be
screened for abuse and depending on the type of misconduct, one or
both parties will be punished.

To request a review from a «teacher» (as opposed to peer review),
add ‹--teacher› to the command:

    $ pb161 review --request t1_cellular --teacher

The output from ‹pb161 status› will indicate the task submissions
for which you have requested a teacher review.

### Writing Reviews

To participate as a reviewer, start with the following command:

    $ pb161 review --list

You will get a list of review requests for which you are an eligible
reviewer. In particular, only tasks that you have already
successfully solved will show up. If you like one of the entries,
note its number (e.g. 7) and type:

    $ pb161 review --checkout 7
    $ cd ~/pb161/reviews/
    $ ls

There will be a directory for each of the reviews you agreed to
write. Each directory contains the source code submitted for review,
along with further instructions (the file ‹readme.txt›).

When inserting your comments, please use double ‹**› to make the
comment stand out, like this:

    /** A short, one-line remark. **/

or for longer comments:

    /** A longer comment, which should be wrapped to 80 columns or
     ** less, and where each line should start with the ** marker.
     ** It is okay to end the comment on the last line of text like
     ** this. **/
