## Plagiarism

tl;dr: Please work alone and do not cheat. Cheating is a colossal
waste of everyone's time. We would prefer to spend that time on
improving the course for everyone. Thank you.

And now for the long version, because sadly, the above is not
enough. The goal of this subject is to teach you to write programs
in C++ – from understanding the problem, through designing the
solution and writing it down in C++. You must be able to do all of
this «on your own». Teamwork has its place, but it's not in this
subject.

You must work out all «graded» exercises and tasks entirely on your
own. Discussing the solution, even in abstract terms, is not
permitted. If you do not understand something, ask your tutor
«privately». If you are caught cheating, ‘we have only shared ideas’
or even ‘we only discussed the problem statement’ will not hold as a
valid defence. If you want to study together, that is fine, and
encouraged – there are plenty of «ungraded» exercises for this
purpose. You can discuss those, solve them together, share and
compare your solutions and so on.

Please note that you are also responsible for keeping your solutions
private. If you only use the ‹pb161› command on ‹aisa›, it will make
your ‹~/pb161› directory inaccessible to anyone else (this also
applies to school-provided UNIX workstations). Keep it that way. If
you work on your solution using other computers, make sure they are
secure. Do not publish your solutions anywhere (on the internet or
otherwise) and do not share them for any reason. All parties in a
copying incident will be treated equally.

### Penalties

Any points awarded for work that has been shared with another
student are voided (including any points from reviews, and any other
bonuses they enabled – that is, if you copy a prep exercise and you
had been awarded a point for that week's seminar, that point will be
revoked). Additionally, following penalties apply:

 │ items copied │ penalty │ total │
 ├─────────────▻│────────▻│──────▻│
 │     1st task │    -3pt │  -3pt │
 │     2nd task │    -5pt │  -8pt │
 │     3rd task │    -7pt │ -15pt │
 │┄┄┄┄┄┄┄┄┄┄┄┄┄┄│┄┄┄┄┄┄┄┄┄│┄┄┄┄┄┄┄│
 │ 1st prep ex. │    -1pt │  -1pt │
 │ 2nd prep ex. │    -2pt │  -3pt │
 │ 3rd prep ex. │    -3pt │  -6pt │
 │ 4th prep ex. │    -5pt │ -11pt │

The ‘counter’ is shared between tasks and exercises (with tasks
coming first), so if you copy (or let someone copy, same thing) a
task and two exercises, that'd be -3 (1st task) + -2 (2nd exercises)
+ -3 (3rd exercise), for a total of -8pt.
